# zevs-analysis
## Automatic analysis of ZEVS messages on 82Hz

This is a couple of scripts to automatically find ZEVS transmismissions in 
a large dataset.

Please see: https://klubnl.pl/wpr/en/index.php/2022/06/16/analysis-of-zevs-messages/

The dataset is here: https://klubnl.pl/zevs/


It contains the following scripts:

parse_zevsdir.py - for each file in the dataset find which frequency that ZEVS transmits on has the strongest signal

find_zevs_transmissions.py - try to find valid ZEVS messages in the data generated by parse_zevsdir.py

plot.sh - plot the number of messages per day

spectrum.sh - using the files in the dataset, make a spectrogram for a given time range

generate_all_spectrograms.sh - generate a spectrogram for each message found by find_zevs_transmissions.py

runme.sh - run all of the above. Note: look inside this script to see how to download the ZEVS dataset


The scripts were intended to be ran on a modern linux system. Gnuplot and python3 must be installed.

To see how it works, read the runme.sh script. I hope to write better documentation someday.

## Results

This repository also has the results of running the scripts, so that you don't have 
to download the whole dataset and run it just to see the results:

zevs_freqs.txt - the result of running parse_zevsdir.py. contains the timestamp and frequency that ZEVS transmitted on

zevs_freqs_sort.txt - zevs_freqs.txt, sorted by timestamp

zevs_messages.txt - detected ZEVS messages

zevs_messages_perday.txt - number of ZEVS messages per day

zevs_messages_perday.pdf - a plot of messages per day, based on zevs_messages_perday.txt

zevs_activity.pdf - a plot of the number of minutes with 82Hz carrier active per day

spectrograms/ - a directory with a spectrogram of all messages in zevs_messages.txt (including false decodes).




